<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XII: A Red Taximeter</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-12" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="z3998:ordinal z3998:roman">XII</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">A Red Taximeter</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>The Astor Hotel faces on to Times Square. A few paces to the right of the main entrance the Times Building towers to the sky; and at the foot of this the stream of traffic breaks, forming two channels. To the right of the building is Seventh Avenue, quiet, dark, and dull. To the left is Broadway, the Great White Way, the longest, straightest, brightest, wickedest street in the world.</p>
			<p>Psmith and Billy, having left the Astor, started to walk down Broadway to Billy‚Äôs lodgings in Fourteenth Street. The usual crowd was drifting slowly up and down in the glare of the white lights.</p>
			<p>They had reached Herald Square, when a voice behind them exclaimed, ‚ÄúWhy, it‚Äôs <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝWindsor!‚Äù</p>
			<p>They wheeled round. A flashily dressed man was standing with outstetched hand.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI saw you come out of the Astor,‚Äù he said cheerily. ‚ÄúI said to myself, ‚ÄòI know that man.‚Äô Darned if I could put a name to you, though. So I just followed you along, and right here it came to me.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIt did, did it?‚Äù said Billy politely.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIt did, sir. I‚Äôve never set eyes on you before, but I‚Äôve seen so many photographs of you that I reckon we‚Äôre old friends. I know your father very well, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝWindsor. He showed me the photographs. You may have heard him speak of me‚ÅÝ‚ÄîJack Lake? How is the old man? Seen him lately?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNot for some time. He was well when he last wrote.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúGood for him. He would be. Tough as a plank, old Joe Windsor. We always called him Joe.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou‚Äôd have known him down in Missouri, of course?‚Äù said Billy.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThat‚Äôs right. In Missouri. We were side-partners for years. Now, see here, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝWindsor, it‚Äôs early yet. Won‚Äôt you and your friend come along with me and have a smoke and a chat? I live right here in Thirty-Third Street. I‚Äôd be right glad for you to come.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI don‚Äôt doubt it,‚Äù said Billy, ‚Äúbut I‚Äôm afraid you‚Äôll have to excuse us.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIn a hurry, are you?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNot in the least.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThen come right along.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNo, thanks.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúSay, why not? It‚Äôs only a step.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúBecause we don‚Äôt want to. Good night.‚Äù</p>
			<p>He turned, and started to walk away. The other stood for a moment, staring; then crossed the road.</p>
			<p>Psmith broke the silence.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúCorrect me if I am wrong, Comrade Windsor,‚Äù he said tentatively, ‚Äúbut were you not a trifle‚ÅÝ‚Äîshall we say abrupt?‚ÅÝ‚Äîwith the old family friend?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Billy Windsor laughed.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIf my father‚Äôs name was Joseph,‚Äù he said, ‚Äúinstead of being William, the same as mine, and if he‚Äôd ever been in Missouri in his life, which he hasn‚Äôt, and if I‚Äôd been photographed since I was a kid, which I haven‚Äôt been, I might have gone along. As it was, I thought it better not to.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThese are deep waters, Comrade Windsor. Do you mean to intimate‚ÅÝ‚Äî?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIf they can‚Äôt do any better than that, we shan‚Äôt have much to worry us. What do they take us for, I wonder? Farmers? Playing off a comic-supplement bluff like that on us!‚Äù</p>
			<p>There was honest indignation in Billy‚Äôs voice.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou think, then, that if we had accepted Comrade Lake‚Äôs invitation, and gone along for a smoke and a chat, the chat would not have been of the pleasantest nature?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWe should have been put out of business.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI have heard so much,‚Äù said Psmith, thoughtfully, ‚Äúof the lavish hospitality of the American.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúTaxi, sir?‚Äù</p>
			<p>A red taximeter cab was crawling down the road at their side. Billy shook his head.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNot that a taxi would be an unsound scheme,‚Äù said Psmith.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNot that particular one, if you don‚Äôt mind.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúSomething about it that offends your aesthetic taste?‚Äù queried Psmith sympathetically.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúSomething about it makes my aesthetic taste kick like a mule,‚Äù said Billy.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAh, we highly strung literary men do have these curious prejudices. We cannot help it. We are the slaves of our temperaments. Let us walk, then. After all, the night is fine, and we are young and strong.‚Äù</p>
			<p>They had reached Twenty-Third Street when Billy stopped. ‚ÄúI don‚Äôt know about walking,‚Äù he said. ‚ÄúSuppose we take the Elevated?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAnything you wish, Comrade Windsor. I am in your hands.‚Äù</p>
			<p>They cut across into Sixth Avenue, and walked up the stairs to the station of the Elevated Railway. A train was just coming in.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHas it escaped your notice, Comrade Windsor,‚Äù said Psmith after a pause, ‚Äúthat, so far from speeding to your lodgings, we are going in precisely the opposite direction? We are in an uptown train.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI noticed it,‚Äù said Billy briefly.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAre we going anywhere in particular?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThis train goes as far as Hundred and Tenth Street. We‚Äôll go up to there.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAnd then?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAnd then we‚Äôll come back.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAnd after that, I suppose, we‚Äôll make a trip to Philadelphia, or Chicago, or somewhere? Well, well, I am in your hands, Comrade Windsor. The night is yet young. Take me where you will. It is only five cents a go, and we have money in our purses. We are two young men out for reckless dissipation. By all means let us have it.‚Äù</p>
			<p>At Hundred and Tenth Street they left the train, went down the stairs, and crossed the street. Halfway across Billy stopped.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhat now, Comrade Windsor?‚Äù inquired Psmith patiently. ‚ÄúHave you thought of some new form of entertainment?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Billy was making for a spot some few yards down the road. Looking in that direction, Psmith saw his objective. In the shadow of the Elevated there was standing a taximeter cab.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúTaxi, sir?‚Äù said the driver, as they approached.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWe are giving you a great deal of trouble,‚Äù said Billy. ‚ÄúYou must be losing money over this job. All this while you might be getting fares downtown.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThese meetings, however,‚Äù urged Psmith, ‚Äúare very pleasant.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI can save you worrying,‚Äù said Billy. ‚ÄúMy address is 84 East Fourteenth Street. We are going back there now.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúSearch me,‚Äù said the driver, ‚ÄúI don‚Äôt know what you‚Äôre talking about.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI thought perhaps you did,‚Äù replied Billy. ‚ÄúGood night.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThese things are very disturbing,‚Äù said Psmith, when they were in the train. ‚ÄúDignity is impossible when one is compelled to be the Hunted Fawn. When did you begin to suspect that yonder merchant was doing the sleuthhound act?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhen I saw him in Broadway having a heart-to-heart talk with our friend from Missouri.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHe must be something of an expert at the game to have kept on our track.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNot on your life. It‚Äôs as easy as falling off a log. There are only certain places where you can get off an Elevated train. All he‚Äôd got to do was to get there before the train, and wait. I didn‚Äôt expect to dodge him by taking the Elevated. I just wanted to make certain of his game.‚Äù</p>
			<p>The train pulled up at the Fourteenth Street station. In the roadway at the foot of the opposite staircase was a red taximeter cab.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
