<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>IV: Bat Jarvis</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-4" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IV</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">Bat Jarvis</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>Billy Windsor lived in a single room on East Fourteenth Street. Space in New York is valuable, and the average bachelor’s apartments consist of one room with a bathroom opening off it. During the daytime this one room loses all traces of being used for sleeping purposes at night. Billy Windsor’s room was very much like a public school study. Along one wall ran a settee. At night this became a bed; but in the daytime it was a settee and nothing but a settee. There was no space for a great deal of furniture. There was one rocking chair, two ordinary chairs, a table, a bookstand, a typewriter⁠—nobody uses pens in New York⁠—and on the walls a mixed collection of photographs, drawings, knives, and skins, relics of their owner’s prairie days. Over the door was the head of a young bear.</p>
			<p>Billy’s first act on arriving in this sanctum was to release the cat, which, having moved restlessly about for some moments, finally came to the conclusion that there was no means of getting out, and settled itself on a corner of the settee. Psmith, sinking gracefully down beside it, stretched out his legs and lit a cigarette. Mike took one of the ordinary chairs; and Billy Windsor, planting himself in the rocker, began to rock rhythmically to and fro, a performance which he kept up untiringly all the time.</p>
			<p>“A peaceful scene,” observed Psmith. “Three great minds, keen, alert, restless during business hours, relax. All is calm and pleasant chitchat. You have snug quarters up here, Comrade Windsor. I hold that there is nothing like one’s own rooftree. It is a great treat to one who, like myself, is located in one of these vast caravanserai⁠—to be exact, the Astor⁠—to pass a few moments in the quiet privacy of an apartment such as this.”</p>
			<p>“It’s beastly expensive at the Astor,” said Mike.</p>
			<p>“The place has that drawback also. Anon, Comrade Jackson, I think we will hunt around for some such cubbyhole as this, built for two. Our nervous systems must be conserved.”</p>
			<p>“On Fourth Avenue,” said Billy Windsor, “you can get quite good flats very cheap. Furnished, too. You should move there. It’s not much of a neighbourhood. I don’t know if you mind that?”</p>
			<p>“Far from it, Comrade Windsor. It is my aim to see New York in all its phases. If a certain amount of harmless revelry can be whacked out of Fourth Avenue, we must dash there with the vim of highly-trained smell-dogs. Are you with me, Comrade Jackson?”</p>
			<p>“All right,” said Mike.</p>
			<p>“And now, Comrade Windsor, it would be a pleasure to me to peruse that little journal of which you spoke. I have had so few opportunities of getting into touch with the literature of this great country.”</p>
			<p>Billy Windsor stretched out an arm and pulled a bundle of papers from the bookstand. He tossed them on to the settee by Psmith’s side.</p>
			<p>“There you are,” he said, “if you really feel like it. Don’t say I didn’t warn you. If you’ve got the nerve, read on.”</p>
			<p>Psmith had picked up one of the papers when there came a shuffling of feet in the passage outside, followed by a knock upon the door. The next moment there appeared in the doorway a short, stout young man. There was an indescribable air of toughness about him, partly due to the fact that he wore his hair in a well-oiled fringe almost down to his eyebrows, which gave him the appearance of having no forehead at all. His eyes were small and set close together. His mouth was wide, his jaw prominent. Not, in short, the sort of man you would have picked out on sight as a model citizen.</p>
			<p>His entrance was marked by a curious sibilant sound, which, on acquaintance, proved to be a whistled tune. During the interview which followed, except when he was speaking, the visitor whistled softly and unceasingly.</p>
			<p>“<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Windsor?” he said to the company at large.</p>
			<p>Psmith waved a hand towards the rocking chair. “That,” he said, “is Comrade Windsor. To your right is Comrade Jackson, England’s favourite son. I am Psmith.”</p>
			<p>The visitor blinked furtively, and whistled another tune. As he looked round the room, his eye fell on the cat. His face lit up.</p>
			<p>“Say!” he said, stepping forward, and touching the cat’s collar, “mine, mister.”</p>
			<p>“Are you Bat Jarvis?” asked Windsor with interest.</p>
			<p>“Sure,” said the visitor, not without a touch of complacency, as of a monarch abandoning his incognito.</p>
			<p>For <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jarvis was a celebrity.</p>
			<p>By profession he was a dealer in animals, birds, and snakes. He had a fancier’s shop in Groome street, in the heart of the Bowery. This was on the ground floor. His living abode was in the upper story of that house, and it was there that he kept the twenty-three cats whose necks were adorned with leather collars, and whose numbers had so recently been reduced to twenty-two. But it was not the fact that he possessed twenty-three cats with leather collars that made <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jarvis a celebrity.</p>
			<p>A man may win a purely local reputation, if only for eccentricity, by such means. But <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jarvis’s reputation was far from being purely local. Broadway knew him, and the Tenderloin. Tammany Hall knew him. Long Island City knew him. In the underworld of New York his name was a byword. For Bat Jarvis was the leader of the famous Groome Street Gang, the most noted of all New York’s collections of Apaches. More, he was the founder and originator of it. And, curiously enough, it had come into being from motives of sheer benevolence. In Groome Street in those days there had been a dance-hall, named the Shamrock and presided over by one Maginnis, an Irishman and a friend of Bat’s. At the Shamrock nightly dances were given and well attended by the youth of the neighbourhood at ten cents a head. All might have been well, had it not been for certain other youths of the neighbourhood who did not dance and so had to seek other means of getting rid of their surplus energy. It was the practice of these lighthearted sportsmen to pay their ten cents for admittance, and once in, to make hay. And this habit, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Maginnis found, was having a marked effect on his earnings. For genuine lovers of the dance fought shy of a place where at any moment Philistines might burst in and break heads and furniture. In this crisis the proprietor thought of his friend Bat Jarvis. Bat at that time had a solid reputation as a man of his hands. It is true that, as his detractors pointed out, he had killed no one⁠—a defect which he had subsequently corrected; but his admirers based his claim to respect on his many meritorious performances with fists and with the blackjack. And <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Maginnis for one held him in the very highest esteem. To Bat accordingly he went, and laid his painful case before him. He offered him a handsome salary to be on hand at the nightly dances and check undue revelry by his own robust methods. Bat had accepted the offer. He had gone to Shamrock Hall; and with him, faithful adherents, had gone such stalwarts as Long Otto, Red Logan, Tommy Jefferson, and Pete Brodie. Shamrock Hall became a place of joy and order; and⁠—more important still⁠—the nucleus of the Groome Street Gang had been formed. The work progressed. Offshoots of the main gang sprang up here and there about the East Side. Small thieves, pickpockets and the like, flocked to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jarvis as their tribal leader and protector and he protected them. For he, with his followers, were of use to the politicians. The New York gangs, and especially the Groome Street Gang, have brought to a fine art the gentle practice of “repeating”; which, broadly speaking, is the art of voting a number of different times at different polling stations on election days. A man who can vote, say, ten times in a single day for you, and who controls a great number of followers who are also prepared, if they like you, to vote ten times in a single day for you, is worth cultivating. So the politicians passed the word to the police, and the police left the Groome Street Gang unmolested and they waxed fat and flourished.</p>
			<p>Such was Bat Jarvis.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>“Pipe de collar,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jarvis, touching the cat’s neck. “Mine, mister.”</p>
			<p>“Pugsy said it must be,” said Billy Windsor. “We found two fellows setting a dog on to it, so we took it in for safety.”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jarvis nodded approval.</p>
			<p>“There’s a basket here, if you want it,” said Billy.</p>
			<p>“Nope. Here, kit.”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jarvis stooped, and, still whistling softly, lifted the cat. He looked round the company, met Psmith’s eyeglass, was transfixed by it for a moment, and finally turned again to Billy Windsor.</p>
			<p>“Say!” he said, and paused. “Obliged,” he added.</p>
			<p>He shifted the cat on to his left arm, and extended his right hand to Billy.</p>
			<p>“Shake!” he said.</p>
			<p>Billy did so.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jarvis continued to stand and whistle for a few moments more.</p>
			<p>“Say!” he said at length, fixing his roving gaze once more upon Billy. “Obliged. Fond of de kit, I am.”</p>
			<p>Psmith nodded approvingly.</p>
			<p>“And rightly,” he said. “Rightly, Comrade Jarvis. She is not unworthy of your affection. A most companionable animal, full of the highest spirits. Her knockabout act in the restaurant would have satisfied the most jaded critic. No diner-out can afford to be without such a cat. Such a cat spells death to boredom.”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jarvis eyed him fixedly, as if pondering over his remarks. Then he turned to Billy again.</p>
			<p>“Say!” he said. “Any time you’re in bad. Glad to be of service. You know the address. Groome Street. Bat Jarvis. Good night. Obliged.”</p>
			<p>He paused and whistled a few more bars, then nodded to Psmith and Mike, and left the room. They heard him shuffling downstairs.</p>
			<p>“A blithe spirit,” said Psmith. “Not garrulous, perhaps, but what of that? I am a man of few words myself. Comrade Jarvis’s massive silences appeal to me. He seems to have taken a fancy to you, Comrade Windsor.”</p>
			<p>Billy Windsor laughed.</p>
			<p>“I don’t know that he’s just the sort of side-partner I’d go out of my way to choose, from what I’ve heard about him. Still, if one got mixed up with any of that East-Side crowd, he would be a mighty useful friend to have. I guess there’s no harm done by getting him grateful.”</p>
			<p>“Assuredly not,” said Psmith. “We should not despise the humblest. And now, Comrade Windsor,” he said, taking up the paper again, “let me concentrate myself tensely on this very entertaining little journal of yours. Comrade Jackson, here is one for you. For sound, clearheaded criticism,” he added to Billy, “Comrade Jackson’s name is a byword in our English literary salons. His opinion will be both of interest and of profit to you, Comrade Windsor.”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
